The stock market has been rising in the
recent past, showing the strength of the
economy. Or has it been an illusion, a
mirage? Herein lies the truth, the
reason we have seen an increase and the
undeniable facts that can't be ignored.
You came here for the truth. So, let me
unveil that for you. Today we are going
to talk about the real reason why the
stock market has risen. Let's get into
it right away. There are two major
reasons why. I will show you the
documented facts that nobody can deny.
Yet there will still be individuals who
do this right here. Exhibit number
one, central bank incentive program.
That's right. The central banks around
the world have an incentive program in
order to buy shares. In this case, I'm
showing you the
CME. It specifically says, breaks it
down for you exactly what they are
entitled to as part of this incentive
program. Look, we'll give you a
discount. We'll give you a deal. You can
buy some shares. Have a good time.
That's one example. Okay. Then we move
over to look at
this risky business. Central bank
reserves have grown sharply in recent
years while interest rates have been
falling causing reserve managers to buy
riskier assets in search of
returns. Central banks foreign exchange
reserves. Okay, you can see the
increase. What are they made up of?
Well, here is one of those things.
Equities. They are purchasing shares all
over the world and at an increasing
pace. This is something that can't be
necessarily compared to when you look at
an individual individual's consumer
confidence and all this
business. You're talking about central
banks who have unlimited abilities to
print currency and then they do so and
buy shares all around the world. Now
they don't buy
necessarily many different companies in
certain cases
globally. They purchase select shares
and you could see some corporations are
rising dramatically and others in the
same sector are suffering.
Let's turn pages over to this. The
number one, the the pinnacle, the
example of this. The Bank of Japan.
Japan is failing. Completely failing.
And yet they are being used as a perfect
example of how well central bank
policies are designed. The BOJ is a top
10 shareholder in about 90% of their
stock market. Think about that. They are
in the top 10 shareholders. They own
basically the entire stock market of
Japan right now. They're buying all the
debt. They're buying all the stocks.
Nobody real is left in the Japanese
markets. It's all central banks. That is
who is buying it in that case.
Switzerland is doing the same thing. And
I'm sure if you really break it down,
you will see that all central banks are
engaging in this same
scheme. Let me move
on. Suddenly, it all becomes clear.
Stock buybacks have been propping up the
S&P 500. And they've taken the words
right out of my mouth.
There is stock five uh S&P 500 buybacks
on the left, S&P 500 on the right. And
there's
no doubt there's a
dis
discernative
correlation between these two. The price
rises as the stock buybacks rise. I
mean, it's basically going in lock step
together. More stock buybacks S&P rises
very clear that is what is happening
right now. Anybody can realize that.
Anybody can see that debtfueled
buybacks. US companies turning to the
bond market as profits fell. So this is
another means to which they are doing
so. They are saying look we need some
money. We'll issue some debt. People
will buy it up and that will get us
going again. And the governments do the
exact same thing.
And we look at this reported earnings
boosted via buybacks. And it's basically
showing you right here accounting magic.
It says total growth 2009 to present.
Reported earnings per share
221%. Sales per share
28%. And you see something very very
different here when you really look at
the facts and try to realize where is
all of this coming from. Are investors
just coming out of the woodwork and
trying to say, you know, should I should
I buy into this stock right now? I think
it's a good time. There's a lot of
investment. New jobs are being created.
The economy is doing well. Main Street's
doing well. I think it's time to invest.
And millions and millions of people are
investing. No, that's not the case.
There are real investors going in, but
their significance is, let's
insignificant when you compare it to the
central banks. When you compare it to
the big corporations that do stock
buybacks, you're talking about actual
market movers. Individuals investing,
the average investor, even average hedge
funds a lot of times don't have the
power that central banks and the stock
buybacks do to move prices. And that's
what's happening right now. That's the
truth. Look, if you don't want to agree
with it, that's fine. Put your
disagreements in the comments and let's
have a discussion. Let's have a true
discussion. I want to know the facts. I
want to see charts. I want to see
actual
demonstrable figures over the past few
years and be able to prove that. And
then I will listen. I will absolutely
listen. I believe that their stocks have
risen over the past few years. I look at
the the S&P 500. I look at the Dow
Jones. I look at the um foreign markets
and you see a rise. That's clear. The
question is why? That's what I want to
know. Because if it's
unjustified, it will come down and it
will come down hard and a lot of people
are going to get hurt because of it. And
that's what I'm concerned about. If you
found this video informative, please
give me a thumbs up. You at least have
to go in. If you're going to give me a
thumbs down, do so. But have a response
to my video. Have a response. If you
found the video informative, I know
you'll find my books, The Money GPS, and
my new book release, Global Economic
Collapse, even more informative. I get
into the different asset classes in my
first book. I get into how to profit
from them. If you look at the historical
data in that one, it shows you why we
are headed into the same disaster. My
new book talks about different aspects,
talks about becoming self-sufficient,
how to earn income, reducing your
monthly expenses, and also covers some
of the uh other topics as well. So, you
can actually flip through these books.
If you go over to Amazon, they have a
look inside feature that will allow you
to flip through the pages of the book
and see if you like it. Take care.